the all-new Toyota 4runner exudes a
commanding presence so to its looks
translate to the road let's find out the
overall shape definitely makes it look
like it's ready for off-roading it also
manages to share styling cues with the
land and FJ cruisers
I'd say it's sort of an FJ Cruiser light
unfortunately the hood scoop is
non-functioning but it does look pretty
cool the 4runner has 17-inch alloy
wheels and there's about 10 inches of
ground clearance
the interior is sensible and well laid
out and shares a family resemblance to
other Toyota models the front seats are
power operated and are also covered in
waterproof material overall the 4runner
is a large vehicle and the cockpit is
quite roomy even the controls seem to be
a bit larger cupholders vents and plenty
of room for three passengers in the back
seat lots of versatility in the 4runner
you can fit seven people with the
optional fold-out seats or of course you
can carry around a lot of furniture the
4runner is powered by a four liter dual
overhead cam variable valve timing v6
which produces 270 horsepower and 278
pound-feet of torque you can expect to
average 19 miles per hour overall with
17 in the city and 22 on the highway
I figure at worst most full runners sold
in the u.s. we'll see maybe a couple
feet of snow but you can feel confident
with a forerunner if you want to go
off-road it's got a four-wheel drive and
also a low gear four-wheel drive Center
here in the outskirts of Virginia the
Washington DC area there are some places
where you can actually go off road and
enjoy a fine four-wheel-drive vehicle
like the 4runner here but you should
know that even if there's no trespassing
sign posted a no no trespassing sign
posted that you still actually need the
owner of the land's permission to go
four-wheeling on that property
furthering the 4runners off-road
abilities is connecting dynamic
suspension available on the trail
version and what this does is uses
hydraulic sensors to keep all the wheels
level when you're going over rough rocky
terrain also on the highway and make
sure you stay level when corner to get
in the 4runner you're looking at right
around $30,000 if you want the off-road
trail version you're looking at $35,000
equip it with the kinetic suspension
navigation floor mats and destination
and while you're out the door around
$40,000 so depending on your needs what
you're getting for starting at $30,000
is a very competent large seven
passenger SUV and you can even equip it
to go off-roading if you like
out on the highway with the v6 you
actually have more than adequate passing
power passings no problem keeping up
with traffic's no problem and generally
even though this is a large vehicle the
v6 never really feels underpowered
outward vision is actually pretty good
there's really no blind spots to speak
of usually I'm pretty excited about
going through windy roads but in this
Toyota 4runner well you pretty much just
trying to hang on you don't really want
to push the limits too much handles
pretty well for a vehicle of its size
but it's certainly no track star and
it's certainly no sports car so the most
fun you can have with this is probably
off-road
so to sum up the forerunner basically
you're getting a very competent grocery
getter slash soccer mom shuttle or
you're getting a very competent off-road
monster depending on the way you equip
it I'm driving Ivan Capps